Hello everyone and welcome back to part one basic Jake Weary in this lecture we're going to start off
learning how to interact with the DOM with a query and the file for this lecture is part 1 underscore
my document thought East hymnal.
We're going to be using the Council for our commands but we're also going to show you how you can link
your own age T.M. file to Jake queery.
Let's hop over to the browser to get started.
OK.
Here you have my editor open with the file it just referenced part 1.
My document and then also have it linked here in my browser as well as code.
Jay queried dot com.
First I want to briefly walk through the sage Tim L file.
You'll notice here I have a style call and that's basically just in lieu of a CSSA she but I have a
turn blue class which is a color white background blue and then a turn red class which has the text
color be white or the background be red.
So keep that in mind as we continue through this lecture.
But you'll also notice that not only do I have a link to bootstrap but I also have a script call here
that connects me to Jake Query and let me show you how you can actually grab that yourself.
All you have to do is go to code that Jay queried dot com that's C O D E J Q U E R Y that c o m and
this will take you to this Web site showing you the latest stable versions of the CD and for a query
and then you can just come here and we're going to be using J.A.G. theory and you'll have a couple of
options uncompressed magnified.
Slim and slim fine.
Basically these are just variations on how large the file size is.
If you get an compress That's the largest possible if you do in a fight that's probably the smallest
possible.
Now what you can do is just click on any of these so we can do fully and compress and you can just copy
this and then paste it into your file and that will give you the source for the actual that yes.
And if you're interested in this you can actually just copy this link right here.
And then put it into your browser and this will actually be the entire database file.
So this is what Jay Korea's just this really large file and this is the uncompress version.
If you come back here and check out the slim modified version we click on that link and then grab that
HTP and put that in your browser.
You'll notice that this is a much slimmer and way more condense so it makes for a smaller file because
those that have as much white space although Good luck reading this because it's frankly a way to compress
for any normal person to read it.
All right.
Living along.
Let's get started with selecting OK query what I'm going to do now is just expand this.
And then open up my Consul here so I will inspect opened up my console and now I'm ready to go.
So to confirm that you have Jay queery loaded what you should do is just type in a single dollar sign
enter and if you see some function come out then you know that J.
Korea has been loaded and you can test this again by saying dollar sign and then passing in a tag that
you want to grab.
So if you're using J.A.G. you want to grab everything off a tag you can just type in dollar sign and
then in print sees whatever tag you're interested in.
So for example for Heading 1 if I get that then I get back everything that has having one as a object
there.
And for example if I want to grab all the list items I say ally and then I get back what is sort of
like an array.
It's not quite energy but it basically acts like one as far as indexing purposes of the list items.
And then you'll notice that I have a special list.
So one of these has an idea special.
OK let's save this to a variable or say a car and we'll call my variable x.
Say dollar sign Heading 1 enter and then with this with Jay query activated if I want to edit any of
the CSSA properties it's really easy I just say X Dotsie SS and then it takes in two parameters.
The first one being the CSSA property.
So let's say the color and then the second one being whatever you want to change it to.
So let's change heading 1 to be red.
And there you see immediately on top there selecting take cre has been turned red now.
And if I want to change the background I can say anything like CSI assess background and then passen
another color looks.
For instance make it really obvious of blue.
So you can see now that work in J.
Crew just makes your life a whole lot easier.
And especially using Django later on in the course.
Now you can edit multiple CSSA properties at once instead of just passing in one argument and one parameter
we end up doing is just passing in an object.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So I can say a variable Meucci SS and this will be an object so I'm going to be creating a javascript
object right now.
But I remember it basically acts like a dictionary.
So here I'll change the color to be white.
I will change the background to be blue.
Which is essentially going to be keeping it blue and then I'm going to create the border CBR read and
then let's finish off our objects.
If I see Meucci SS I see I have this javascript object.
And now what I can do is say X dot Z assess pass my javascript object and then that's going to change
all of them at once.
So you can see it has now a border read although you can't really see the border.
So let's edit that a little more let's make the border something like
20 pixel AUPs pixels solid red and let's change the background to be something like Green hit enter
and let's run ex-Nazi SS You see us again and here we can see the green the red and the white.
All right let's revisit the topic of grabbing multiple objects at once so we already saw that with the
list items.
But let me clear the page and show that again if I create a variable and call it list items and set
it equal to everything that has a list tag I get back if I check it out.
What essentially looks like an array.
Now technically this is not a javascript array it acts more like what's known as a list in javascript
or a node list but instead what we're going to be showing you is how you can index particular items
off of this.
So if I call list items and say Dotsie SS and change the style.
So for instance I say color is blue then it changes everything of a list tag.
We look at this to the color blue.
If I only want to grab one of them what I can do is use the dot EQM method to grab a particular index
item.
And the way that works is you say list items dot each queue and then pass on the number of the index
you want.
So for the very first one it's going to be 0 and then off of this you can call CSSA and change whatever
properties you want.
So let's change that color to something more obvious like orange.
And if we come back here expand this I can see now the very first item in that list has been changed
to orange and everything else is has retained the color blue.
Now you can also grab the last item by saying list items.
Q And then using negative indexing.
So negative one will then return the last item.
So let's make that color something like.
Well let's just make it orange as well.
We'll hit enter.
And if we scroll down here we see now that last item is orange.
OK.
Now let's talk about grabbing text and HVM.
Remember Previously we had to use things like enraged him or text content.
Jay Kareem makes that much easier.
So I'm going to say dollar sign H-1 and I don't even really have to save it as a variable I can just
call the method or property right here and it's going to be text.
So this says selecting J.
Crew member that's a text to have appear.
If I want to change that.
All I have to do is pass in whatever new text I want so I will say brand new text and that changes the
text.
So again it's just the variable or in this case I haven't even save the two variable just the dollar
sign call and then that text whatever text you want if you want to actually change the HVM L.
All you have to do is say again either your variable or your tag call and then you can say HVM L. close
friend sees that returns the actually him.
In this case there's nothing special about it.
But if I want to edit the aged him out let's make it emphasized and going to say am new and then close
E-M And just like before.
You can't do this if just a text call.
Otherwise it won't actually take the tags into effect.
And here you can see up on the top that is in a Taluk.
Now we're emphasized text.
OK.
Finally let's talk about two more things attributes and values and then classes.
So attributes and values are also very easy to deal with.
When you're working Ojay query for instance if we scroll to the bottom of this page we see we have an
input button.
So we have this form with some stuff and initially it says to your name or something and then we can
click on submit when I'm going to do is I'm going to grab anything that has input so we can see there's
two of these.
There's the first one and then the second one.
So both of these this text box and the submit button you know what I'm going to be doing here is say
input.
Q 1 and then if I want to actually effect the attribute of one of these inputs and remember the attribute
can be something like what type of input it is rummer or creating an input in each T.M. I have to specify
what type it is whether it's a button a radio button checkbox submit text area etc..
So all I have to say is a TTR and then just like with CSSA the first argument is whatever the attribute
you're looking for.
So I will effect the type and then the second one is what you actually want to change that attribute
to.
In this case let's change the type 2 checkbox and now that I've hit enter I can see that submit button
went away and it's now a checkbox on my screen.
All right let's show another way to effect a value.
So if I want to affect the value of this input text box here what I can do is grab anything with input
and then when I'm going to say is dot e q grab the first item there.
So I want to affect that text box and then say V.L. which is going to be the value and it's just a single
parameter here because we're specifically saying I want to affect the value of that text box.
So I will say you value enter and I see a text box value has been changed to new value and that's special
with the dot the A-L call.
Now finally Whoops I want to discuss classes.
So remember we have C SS classes and if we go back to our HTL document here I see I have two classes
turn blue and turn red.
So it's something to keep in mind when let refresh this page so we can get everything back to normal.
OK.
And let me show you how you can add a class with Shakeri.
All you have to do is have a dollar sign here.
Select something so let's select the header.
In this case it's a one or actually yeah.
H-1.
And then if you want to add a class you have to do is call at class and then the name of the class.
So let's say turn read and then we can see it turned red but I want to remove a class.
It's very similar process.
Call H-1 and then call da remove.
Class and then we can remove turn red.
Now usually what you end up wanting to do is toggle class not just add a class because if we already
have the read class on it we want to remove the read class if it doesn't have the read class already.
Then we want to add it the way you can do that is by using toggle.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to call H-1 again Elicia with blue class.
So I will say toggle class turn blue and you can see it turned blue.
But if I run the exact same line of code again toggle class it will turn it back off.
So you can see that it's toggle it on and off.
So now you don't have to worry about class and or move class.
You can just use toggle class instead.
It really depends on your situation whether or not you want to use class or just a simple add or remove
call but know that you have the option there.
All right.
That's really all I wanted to talk about for Jay queery for this particular lecture.
Hopefully you saw how easy it is to work with a query and if you want a reference for all the commands
we just showed you can just go to part one basic J queried that J.S. under the Shakeri folder and it
has all the commands in a javascript file that we went through here in the con..
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.